docs: register stake to Babylon chain (#105)
babylonlabs-io/btc-staker: docs/register-phase-1-stake.md

# Register your Phase-1 stake to Phase-2 through CLI

## Understanding the registration process

The registration of Phase-1 stakes to Phase-2 is a manual process that requires 

> the staker to register their stake to Phase-2 of the Babylon network. 

Reviewer: I think we should avoid overly using the "Phase-1" and "Phase-2" concepts as they might be hard to understand. If you see the document I wrote on the registration eligibility, I note about the "registration of stakes that are confirmed on the Bitcoin ledger (such as those created during phase-1) to the Babylon blockchain".

Essentially, I refer to "phase-2" as the Babylon blockchain and I explain that phase-1 stakes are a subset of stakes already created on bitcoin

This registration is executed through the `stakercli` binary 

> and this guide will show you how to do it through the `stakercli` binary. For 

Reviewer: Sentence is repetitive

KeyringBackend = "test"              # Keyring backend type
GasPrices = "0.01ubbn"              # Minimum gas price
```

Finally, start the `btcstaker` daemon, which will manage your connections to both 
Babylon and Bitcoin nodes, monitor transactions, and handle the staking process.
Add the location for the above created `config.json` file to the command:

```bash
stakerd --configfile <config-file-path> admin start
```

## Register your stake

Following the setup of the configuration file and starting the `btcstaker` 
daemon, you can proceed to register your stake from Phase-1 to Phase-2 using 
the following command. We use the `global_parameters.json` file that you should 
already have created as stated in the prerequisites.

```shell
stakercli daemon stake-from-phase1 <global-parameters-file> \
    --staking-transaction-hash <your-phase1-tx-hash> \
    --staker-address <your-btc-address> \
    --tx-inclusion-height <block-height>
```

parameters:
- `global-parameters-file`: The path to the global parameters file.
- `your-phase1-tx-hash`: The original hash of your phase-1 staking transaction.
- `your-btc-address`: BTC address of the staker in hex.

> - `block-height`: The block height at which your staking transaction was 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `block-height`: The BTC block height at which your staking transaction was 
```

```shell
stakercli daemon stake-from-phase1 <global-parameters-file> \
    --staking-transaction-hash <your-phase1-tx-hash> \
    --staker-address <your-btc-address> \
    --tx-inclusion-height <block-height>
```

Parameters:
- `global-parameters-file`: The path to the global parameters file.
- `your-phase1-tx-hash`: The original hash of your Bitcoin staking transaction.
  This will be used to retrieve the staking transaction from your wallet.
- `your-btc-address`: BTC address of the staker in hex.
- `block-height`: The BTC block height at which your staking transaction was 
  included.

The above command will output a transaction hash similar to below 
that you can use to verify the registration on the Babylon blockchain, which 
you will see in the next section.

```json
{
  "babylon_btc_delegation_tx_hash": "<btc-delegation-tx-hash>"
}
```

## Verify your registration

Following the registration of your Bitcoin stake, you can verify your 
registration by checking your balance on the [Babylon Explorer](https://babylon-testnet.l2scan.co) 
by searching for the `<babylon_btc_delegation_tx_hash>` value.

The below states relate to the statuses maintained by stakerd. Above you refer 

> to going to the Babylon explorer. Something is missing here I think. In general, I recommend that we check the status of the transaction by stakerd/stakercli commands instead of sending people to a 3rd party explorer.

Reviewer: My comment is leftover here

- `SENT_TO_BTC` - Initial state
- `CONFIRMED_ON_BTC` - Bitcoin confirmation
- `SENT_TO_BABYLON` - Registration submitted to Babylon
- `VERIFIED` - Registration verified
- `DELEGATION_ACTIVE` - Stake active and has voting power
- `UNBONDING_CONFIRMED_ON_BTC` - Unbonding in progress
- `SPENT_ON_BTC` - Stake withdrawn

Depending on the state of the transaction, you can see the progress of the 

> registration on the Babylon blockchain, as it will take a few minutes for the 

Reviewer: How many minutes? Should be less than a minute if everything goes well, i.e. around 20s.

Reviewer: How can someone view the registration on the babylon blockchain?

# Register your Phase-1 stake to Phase-2 through CLI

## Understanding the registration process

To register your Bitcoin stake on the Babylon chain, you must have a confirmed 
Bitcoin staking transaction. Before proceeding, please review the 
[Registration of Existing Stakes to the Babylon Chain](https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/babylon/blob/main/docs/stake-registration.md) 
documentation to check your eligibility and understand the registration 
requirements and process.

## Table of Contents
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Setup and configuration](#setup-and-configuration)
- [Register your stake](#register-your-stake)
- [Verify your registration](#verify-your-registration)
- [Receiving rewards](#receiving-rewards)

## Prerequisites

To register your stake to the Babylon blockchain, the following are required:

> - Access to the Bitcoin wallet you have used to create your stake on Bitcoin 
>   (needed to sign transactions).
> - The Bitcoin block height in which your staking transaction was included, which 
>   will be used in the registration command.
> - A funded Babylon address, which will be used to receive the rewards from the 
>   registration.
> - Global parameter file as seen here https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/networks/blob/main/bbn-test-5/parameters/global-params.json 
>   that were used when you created your Bitcoin stake. This will be used in the 
>   registration command later on.
> - A running instance of the `stakerd` daemon. Please follow the `stakerd` 
>   [setup guide](../README.md#3-btc-staker-installation) to complete the setup. 
>   This is also inclusive of creating a Babylon keyring with funds step as the 
>   `stakerd` daemon requires a funded keyring to pay for the transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Staker Daemon**: A running instance of the `stakerd` daemon.
   - **Bitcoin Wallet**: The `stakerd` daemon should connect and have access to the Bitcoin wallet
     that you have previously used to create your phase-1 stake on Bitcoin. This will be needed to
     create a proof of ownership of the stake.
   - **Funded Babylon Account**: The `stakerd` daemon should have access to a funded
      Babylon account. This account will pay for transaction fees for the interaction with
      the Babylon blockchain, as well as be used as the recipient for BTC staking rewards
      in the respective native PoS token (note: testnet tokens have no value).
   - **Setup Guide**: The  `stakerd`
      [setup guide](../README.md#3-btc-staker-installation) contains all details on how
      to set up the `stakerd` and connect it with your Bitcoin wallet and Babylon account.
- **Phase-1 Parameters**: The staker CLI requires the parameters that were used when creating
   the phase-1 staking transaction in order to construct a valid Babylon chain registration transaction.
   Specifically, it requires the following:
   - **Global Parameter Versions**: The global parameters file containing the full parameters versions for
      the phase-1 network you submitted your stake in (e.g.,
      [testnet parameters](https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/networks/blob/main/bbn-test-4/parameters/global-params.json).
   - **Bitcoin Inclusion Height**: The Bitcoin block height in which your staking transaction was included, which
      will be used in the registration command. You can find this through Bitcoin explorer
      tools such as [mempool.space](https://mempool.space).
```

> ## Setup and configuration

Reviewer: We don't need this section I think. I explained everything in my above recommendation on the pre-requisites.

If we need it, I think it's a bit confusing. We ask the staker as a pre-requisite to set up the stakerd daemon, but then we tell them "You need to create a new config file" and connect it to a different wallet and then start again. Doesn't make sense for me. We can just tell them (as I did in the pre-requisites edit) "set up your stakercli daemon to connect to the wallet you used". They can figure it out

by running the `dump-config` command. This will create a `config.json` file 
in your current working directory that you'll customize with your specific 
values:

```bash
stakercli admin dump-config
```

The configuration file below contains default settings and placeholders 
for your Bitcoin and Babylon values. Please replace the placeholders with 
your specific information:

```toml
[walletconfig]
WalletName = "btc-staker"  # Replace with your Bitcoin wallet name
WalletPass = "your-wallet-password"  # Replace with your wallet password

[walletrpcconfig]
Host = "127.0.0.1:19001"  # Bitcoin Wallet RPC endpoint
User = "your-rpc-user"    # Replace with your Bitcoin RPC username
Pass = "your-rpc-pass"    # Replace with your Bitcoin RPC password

[chain]
Network = "signet"  # Bitcoin network (signet for testnet)
```

Finally, start the `btcstaker` daemon, which will manage your connections to both 
Babylon and Bitcoin nodes, monitor transactions, and handle the staking process.
Add the location for the above created `config.json` file to the command:

```shell
stakerd --configfile <config-file-path> admin start
```

## Register your stake

> After configuring and starting the `btcstaker` daemon, you'll need the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After configuring and starting the `stakerd` daemon, you'll need the 
```

`global_parameters.json` file (created during prerequisites) for the next steps.

A few notes about the `global-parameters.json` file:
1. It is used to retrieve covenant keys and quorum from the parameters version 
   you staked in.
2. It can also be used to parse your Bitcoin staking transaction to extract 
   important information from the `OP_RETURN` data, which contains:
   - The staking period you chose
   - The finality provider you chose

> **⚡ Note**: While these parameters can be provided manually, the global 

> > parameters file provides an easier user experience. This guide is only for 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> parameters file provides a smoother user experience. This guide is only for 
```

> > valid, confirmed Bitcoin staking transactions with valid `OP_RETURN` data. If 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> valid Bitcoin staking transactions with well-formed `OP_RETURN` data that have received
> sufficient Bitcoin confirmations (e.g., 10 for testnet). If 
```

> your transaction has malformed `OP_RETURN` data or isn't a confirmed staking 

> > transaction, to check your eligibility please refer to the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> transaction (because it is a new one or very recently submitted), it cannot be registered.
> To check your registration eligibility please refer to the 
```

> [registration eligibility guide](registration-eligibility.md).

Now that you have the `global-parameters.json` file, you can register your 
Bitcoin stake by running the following command:

```shell
stakercli daemon stake-from-phase1 <global-parameters-file> \
    --staking-transaction-hash <your-phase1-tx-hash> \
    --staker-address <your-btc-address> \
    --tx-inclusion-height <block-height>
```

Parameters:
- `global-parameters-file`: The path to the global parameters file.

> - `your-phase1-tx-hash`: The original hash of your Bitcoin staking transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `your-phase1-tx-hash`: The original hash of your Bitcoin staking transaction.
   This will be used to retrieve the staking transaction from your wallet.
```

> - `your-btc-address`: BTC address of the staker in hex.

Reviewer: hex? This is weird. Shouldn't it be the normal address?

Reviewer: How will the staker be able to find their address in hex format? This is a bit weird. Can we verify that indeed a hex is required and not a normal address?

Reviewer 3: ahh the description --staker-address [btcStakerAddrHex] is laying, the address must be bech32 btc encoded address - https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/btc-staker/blob/main/stakerservice/service.go#L142

Maybe you can fix it in this pr ?

- `block-height`: The BTC block height at which your staking transaction was 
  included.

The above command will output a transaction hash similar to below 
that you can use to verify the registration on the Babylon blockchain, which 
you will see in the next section.

```json
{
  "babylon_btc_delegation_tx_hash": "<btc-delegation-tx-hash>"
}
```

## Verify your registration

Following the registration of your Bitcoin stake, you can verify your 
registration by checking your balance on the [Babylon Explorer](https://babylon-testnet.l2scan.co) 
by searching for the `<babylon_btc_delegation_tx_hash>` value.

> This will then give you details on your transaction, which includes the state 

Reviewer: The below states relate to the statuses maintained by `stakerd`. Above you refer to going to the Babylon explorer. Something is missing here I think. In general, I recommend that we check the status of the transaction by stakerd/stakercli commands instead of sending people to a 3rd party explorer.

of the transaction, which can be one of the following:

- `SENT_TO_BTC` - Initial state
- `CONFIRMED_ON_BTC` - Bitcoin confirmation
- `SENT_TO_BABYLON` - Registration submitted to Babylon
- `VERIFIED` - Registration verified
- `DELEGATION_ACTIVE` - Stake active and has voting power
- `UNBONDING_CONFIRMED_ON_BTC` - Unbonding in progress
- `SPENT_ON_BTC` - Stake withdrawn

Depending on the state of the transaction, you can see the progress of the 
registration on the Babylon blockchain, as it will take a few minutes for the 
transaction to be verified and the stake to be active.

> ## Receiving rewards

Reviewer: We don't need this section. Let's remove it

stakercli daemon list-staking-transactions

# Or check a specific transaction:
stakercli daemon staking-details --staking-transaction-hash <your-btc-tx-hash>
```

The response will show an output similar to below:

```json
{
    "staking_tx_hash": "<your-btc-tx-hash>",
    "staker_address": "<btc-staker-address>",
    "staking_state": "SENT_TO_BABYLON",
    "watched": true,
    "transaction_idx": "1"
}
```
As you can see, the `staking_state` field will show the current state of your 
stake registration. Your stake will progress through these states:

- `SENT_TO_BTC` - Initial state when transaction is created
- `CONFIRMED_ON_BTC` - Bitcoin network has confirmed the transaction
- `SENT_TO_BABYLON` - Registration submitted to Babylon chain
- `VERIFIED` - Covenant signatures received
- `DELEGATION_ACTIVE` - Stake is active with voting power
- `UNBONDING_CONFIRMED_ON_BTC` - Unbonding in progress
- `SPENT_ON_BTC` - Stake has been withdrawn

Once your staking state reaches `DELEGATION_ACTIVE`, your stake is active and 
participating in the network.

If you wish to check your registration on the Babylon chain, you can then 
verify your registration with the next step.

> 2. Babylon Chain Status:

Reviewer: I would remove this paragraph
